##### Why can the computationalism paradigm be considered the birth of cognitive science
**Make sure to discuss the following:**
- How are behaviourism and computationalism separate paradigms in the Kuhnian sense?
- The nature of representations
- Does behaviourism still have a role in cognitive science?
___
Laurits Wieslander Lyngbæk

**Computationalism and the birth of cognitive science**
The main argument of this essay is that the computationalism paradigm can be regarded as the birth of cognitive science. This will require a definition of cognitive science; and the role of behaviourism and computationalism in this field of science.  But before discussing the intricacies of differentiating what paradigms belong to the field of cognitive science, a definition of cognitive science is needed. In the scope of this essay cognitive science will be regarded as the *interdisciplinary* scientific study of the *mind*. Before we depart into the history of the "cognitive revolution" the reader should take notice of the definitions use of interdisciplinary and study of the *mind*, as this definition will be crucial for discussing the nuances of whether computationalism was the birth of cognitive science. 

**What constitutes the birth of a new science**
The main argument will need to be broken into sub-questions and arguments to generate a sufficient answer. This essay will explore what the birth of cognitive science constitutes. In the general discourse regarding cognitive science the "cognitive revolution" is regarded as the birth of cognitive science. The "cognitive revolution" was a movement and paradigm shift in the 1950's and 1960's trying to explain the mind, motivated by the shared urge to overcome the limitations of behaviourism$^1$. This shift in paradigm was centred around the common tenet of "cognition is computation of representations". In contrary to the behaviourist paradigm computationalism introduced cognition as the main tenet of research questions, and thereby shifted the research focus away from studying behaviour and onto studying the mind *as* an explanation for behaviour. This shift of research focus is the factor that led to the birth of cognitive science per the definition of cognitive science in this paper.

But, regarding the topic of cognitive science's definition it is important to emphasize the interdisciplinary aspects of the field, as the paradigm shift could be argued to not be a purist shift of paradigms in a Kuhnian framework. That is, the revolution against behaviourism wasn't big enough to kill of behaviourism as a paradigm. Even though the crises of behaviourism was prominent with the introduction of new technology and the lack of explanatory power regarding new experimental results, it didn't produce a big enough revolution to infer a united resolution. That is behaviourism still existed as a prominent paradigm in the field of psychology, and would still be influential in later research of cognitive science. But, the the birth of cognitive science lies not in the difference of utility in these two paradigms, but in the changed emphasis onto studying the mind. It is the focus on the mind, that makes computationalism the first cognitive paradigm.

**Was there even a shift in paradigms?**
The second argument needed to explain the main argument will address the assumption that a shift of paradigms happened. To further clarify, the paper will now argue that a paradigm shift happened as the the ideas of computationalism can't exist in a behaviourist paradigm. It's as previously explained the introduction of the mind as an explanatory factor of behaviour that differentiates computationalism from behaviourism. The mind as an explanatory factor reveals itself in the representational theory of mind (RTM). RTM was a version of computationalism pushed by Jerry Fodor, who postulates that we have a set of mental representations. These representations allow for an explanation of behaviour the behaviourist framework can't. An concrete example would be that a subject could internalize the representations JERRY LOVES EMMA. This wouldn't need a shift of paradigms. The argument arises with the added aspect of the mental representations, that a subject is free to imagine a re-shuffling of the representations into EMMA LOVES JERRY. This re-shuffled idea, could affect the subjects behaviour in a way that couldn't be explainable by the behaviourist paradigm. This lack of explanatory power in the behaviourist paradigm is indicating a shift in what can be studied. This shift of what can be studied is in the Kuhnian framework the *sign of the birth of a new science*. It can therefore be said; that if *computationalism is a new paradigm* and that *computationalism is studying the mind, then it would also infer that ***the computationalism paradigm be considered the birth of cognitive science***.

___
1) Núñez, R., Allen, M., Gao, R. _et al._ What happened to cognitive science?. _Nat Hum Behav_ **3,** 782–791 (2019). https://doi.org/10.1038/s41562-019-0626-2